In this video, you will learn
to describe penetration testing,
why it is used, and the ethical
considerations you might run into.
Describe the difference between white hat,
black hat, and grey hat attackers.
Describe the several different types of
threat actors and what characterizes each.
>> Okay for our next topic be we're going
to talk a little bit about penetration
testing.
So penetration testing,
it's also called Pentest or
pen testing,
it's also referred as ethical hacking.
It's basically the practice
of testing a computer system,
a network application, either web
application or software application,
to find security vulnerabilities that
an attacker could use to exploit and
gain authorized access to a system or
an application.
The main objective of a Pentest
is to identify security
weaknesses before attackers can
identify them and and exploit them.
A penetration testing it's
a practice that requires several
contracts before it can be performed.
For example, service level agreement,
engagement rules,
all sorts of documentation to make
the penetration testing a legal agreement
between two parties.
The penetration testers are the ones in
charge of doing the technical process and
they are also called white hackers.
There are different type of hackers and
we can divide them into three categories,
basically white hat hackers,
grey hat hackers and black cat hackers.
The white hat hackers, as we discussed
earlier, are basically the ethical
hackers, people that do this under
contract and for security reasons.
They're authorized to perform penetration
testing on companies and they do it for
the good of the company.
Grey hat hackers they stand like in
between the white hats and the grey hats,
they usually performed penetration
testing without authorization, but
they usually report back to the customer,
not the customer,
the possible victim because they
were not contracted to do this.
So they were not authorized for previously
previously authorized by a company to
perform any type of security assessment
under instructor or their network.
They do it anyways and
they report back to the customer or
the victim, the possible victim.
On the other hand we have
the black hat hacker,
they are quote unquote the bad guys.
They usually do these type of attacks for
personal recognition,
money, political agenda or social change.
They do not do it under contract if they
are not authorized to perform any type of
penetration testing activity
on any of their victims.
We also have something
called thread actors.
It's basically an entity that
it's partially responsible for
an incident or an attack.
It usually affects the security
of organizations and
they are also referred
as malicious actors.
There are different types.
And with this different types there
are also different skill levels
associated with them.
To start with during there's
this script kiddies.
Basically, the script kiddies
are unexperienced hackers.
They have limited technical knowledge and
they rely on automated tools to hack.
They do not develop their own tools and
they pretty much use what's publicly
available with very little
technical knowledge.
We have also the hacktivist.
These type of hackers they are usually
have a political agenda or
a some sort of social
change in their minds.
There are also organized crime.
These are usually external
to the do the company.
They're highly sophisticated, meaning
they have very high technical knowledge.
They are also heavily funded from
an economical standpoint and
they are usually attacking
from some sort of a highly
developed malware like
Ransomware in nowadays.
Insiders, they represent past or present
employees, contractors, partners or
any entity that has access to a company
property or confidential information.
The insiders can be a security risk for
intentionally or
unintentionally basically an insider or
an employee could be fired from
the company for example, and they could
be motivated to perform some sort of
disruption activity on the company.
They are could also be unintentionally
an employee may be deleting some
sort of some sort of information that
is not to be supposed to be deleted but
they made a mistake and
they deleted that information by mistake.
We also have the competitors.
A competitor could be a potential security
risk to other organizations because they
they could be motivated by maybe releasing
a product before the competition.
And finally we have the nation states.
Nation states are external to the company.
They are also highly sophisticated.
They are very well economically funded,
they could be something
related to politics, military,
technical or economic agendas.
We have a few examples of some
nation-state threat actors.
The Fancy Bear, also called ATP28.
Lazarus Group, Scarcruft also called
accrued Group 123 or the APT29.
These are all examples of nation
state funded hacking organizations.